# Why Fenestron?
Electron is an incredible technology. Truly write-once-run-anywhere cross-platform desktop app development powered by one of the most diverse, capable, and rich development ecosystems in the history of software: Javascript. Electron lets developers build the apps they want with the technologies they know and love, and that is an awesome thing.

What isn't always awesome, however, is the user experience Electron apps deliver. Electron apps very often feel out of place on whatever OS they're run on. They don't fit the UI conventions or use the same components as native desktop apps. Web app design conventions and frameworks are used for Electron app development resulting in apps that feel out of place, that don't look or behave in ways users expect, and come off as feeling somehow "less than". Articles online and reviews on app stores make it clear: users prefer native apps and feel like they aren't being provided a truly desktop experience when Electron is used.

But it doesn't have to be that way. Users don't actually care what technologies developers use. When users say they don't like Electron apps they really mean that they don't like desktop apps that look and feel like web apps. Additionally, Electron isn't the problem - Electron doesn't care what UI framework you use - its the UI choices developers make that people blame Electron apps for. And for good reason too. It isn't a simple matter of asthetics. When a person chooses a computer and OS to use they are making a statement of preference. They adopt the technology because they like the technology. When we deliver apps to users and we don't adhere to the conventions of the platform our users are running it is disrespectful. We're saying without words "We don't care about your preferences. We don't care about your choices. You'll get our software on our terms, with what takes the least effort from us, not based on what you want." They is very, very not awesome.

Fenestron is an attempt to try and address this problem by providing developers a set of lovingly crafted VueJS UI components that implement many of the core Windows 10 XAML UWP components. These components not only recreate the visual styling of Windows 10 components, but attempt to implement their behaviors and recreate their APIs to the greatest degree possible. The resulting apps look and act so much like Windows 10 apps that they should be nearly indistinguisable to most users. This allows Javascript developers to produce Windows 10 apps that are idiomatic, that fit in on the platform, and that repect their user's choices. And that is awesome.

If you are developing a new app Fenestron gives you everything you need to get going. You'll have you Windows 10 app going in no time. If you already have an Electron app you can bring in Fenestron to help make it more idiomatic. So long as your app has clear seperation of concerns it should be feasible to bring in Fenestron UI components and help give your app a more native look and feel.

So what are the compromises? Fenestron apps will look even weirder and more out of place on MacOS and Linux than your already weird and out of place Electron apps look today! Our recomendation is to deliver separate binaries with separate UIs to each of your target platforms. So long as you have clear separation of concerns and don't have your business logic, data, and UI all jumbled together moving to Fenestron should be a reasonable project for most app. Fenestron doesn't require that you leave all of your UI code behind either. Windows 10 apps have custom UI code all of the time, so that's no problem. It should mostly be a matter of moving to Fenestron's layout and container components and then brining in your components to provide functionality. Another compromise worth noting is that Fenestron is desktop first and targeted at Electron. There is no attempt made to be cross browser compatible - we compile for Electron 6 or above. Layouts produced by Fenestron feel at home on Windows but would be out of place on the web. We don't recommend that you attempt to use Fenestron on the web. 